Do you know, Swift objective
C and Java. Can you
use them in tools like
X code or Android studio?
If so awesome. But for
everyone else, there's native script
to cross platform framework for
building native iOS and Android
apps using skills, you already
have JavaScript or TypeScript CSS,
and XAML like XML, markup.
Start building your dream native
mobile apps today. Use the
native script command line interface
for free or use native
script in visual studio with
a Tellerik platform subscription, which
will enable you to build
iOS apps without the glowing
Apple get started for free@tellerikdotcomslashnativescriptfromhanselminutes.com.
It's Hanselman. It's a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing your show number
507. In this episode, Scott
talks with Irene Ross about
data visualization. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
today I'm talking with Irene
Ross. She's a data visualization
expert and a specialist at
Boku on the topic of
data visualization. So you have
been doing data visualization since
you're in your entire career.
This has been your focus,
has it not? Yeah, just
about, I actually started being
a, just the software engineer
at IBM and I happened
to stumble into an internal
talk from a group of
researchers that were doing some
really interesting work around a
project called mini eyes, which
was kind of like a
YouTube for data visualization. And
I was so fascinated and
excited and cause I had
never really seen data visualization
before or thought about it
as a discipline. It was
just kind of there. And
suddenly I thought, Oh, I
could be doing this instead.
And I weaseled my way
in, and that was about
almost 10 years ago and
I've been doing it since
Many eyes was a project
at IBM. That was like
revolutionary. And it recently closed
at stores, I think in
June of this year. Yeah.
From what I can tell,
I certainly have been a
little bit out of the
loop, but it does look
that way. It's been through
a lot of really interesting
evolutions and it was kind
of fun to see and
be a part of it.
Especially in the beginning when
I joined it was actually
being rewritten because it was
getting too much traffic than
too much attention and the
infrastructure we had couldn't sustain
it. It was kind of
a research prototype that became
really huge. And so we
got, should we write it?
And then a lot of
the visualizations were written in
Java and as you know,
on the web Java is
been a little bit harder
to work with sure. Many
experienced the applets that no
longer run. And some of
them were also flashed. So
the same story. And so
by the time that I
had left, it was kind
of being picked up and
moved around to kind of
try to actually productize it
and turn it into something
more real. And I believe
that recently it's been transformed
to being much more web
friendly, but I don't know
exactly the full story behind
with the plans are I
watch it from the sidelines
and which it will. Yeah.
It looks like as a
free service, it's kind of
gone away as an individual
concept, but now it's IBM
Watson analytics. So it's becoming
part of the Watson family
of IBM stuff. So hopefully
many eyes or the idea
of collaborative visualization will live
on. Absolutely. Yeah. And we've
seen lots of exciting projects
that have come up. I
don't want to say as
a result directly, but certainly
inspired by that and a
really big surgery that is
actually happening in journalism, where
we see a lot, a
lot more interactive visualizations being
used as part of traditional
storytelling. And those folks need
those same kinds of tools.
They have data. They want
to be able to create
graphics when quickly it can't
always be, you know, incredibly
detailed and super interactive. Sometimes
you just need a small
chart to go along with
things. And so there's lots
of really cool tools that
folks have been writing that
are sores that companies can
deploy and actually using their
infrastructure. It seems like in
the, in my career as
a software engineer, Viola visualization,
I think starts with the
pie chart. Like I know
that that might, that might
offend an expert, you know,
in this space, but I'm,
I'm, I apologize ahead of
time, but you know, that
that sense of achievement that
one has when they make
their first pie chart, but
it seems like the ramping
up from there is a
little bit steep. Where's the
OnRamps do I need to
go read books by Edward
Tufty to start really thinking
about data visualization? That's a
really excellent question. I think
today's books are absolutely beautiful.
And in terms of just
getting excited about the potential
of data visualization, they absolutely
get you there. Cause you're
going to get to see
an overview of really fun
historic visualization. And there's certainly
lots of opinions just mixed
in there for you to
kind of start figuring out
what your style is. But,
you know, I think there's
definitely a lot of perceptions
around what data is good
data that is not good
database with our pie chart
is good or bad. I
don't so much subscribe to
that because I think all
data, this has its place.
You know, sometimes a pie
chart is just, is enough.
Sometimes you don't need anything
too crazy or much more
complicated than that. And so,
you know, I'll probably start
is a great start. A
lot of, a lot of
folks come to data visualization
from Excel and a lot
of people work in cell
phone really long time. And
it's a great tool for
a lot of the tasks
that people have to do.
So, you know, and it
provides just enough facilities for
you to often make a
lot of sense of who
you're working with. And then
it starts getting a little
bit more complicated. So if
you're realizing that there are
certain charts that you're making
over and over and over
again, and wouldn't it be
great if you just had
a server and you could
pipe that data back and
render them on the website
to share with everybody instead
of sending sales spreadsheets around.
Well, that's when he actually
started building things a little
bit more accustomed and there's
still even libraries that you
could use that are source
that provide some of the
basic charting capability that you
see in Excel, you know,
your bar charts or scatterplots
your pie charts, things like
that. And I think the
complexity really comes up when
you're starting to realize that,
Oh, wouldn't it be great
if you clicked on that
thing and this other thing
happened, and you said this
other visualization, maybe wanting to
coordinate a bunch of them
so that you kind of
have this much more robust
filtering mechanism. And that's when
I think you start seeing
people come up with really
crazy layouts, you know, a
tree map inside of the
bar graph inside of, you
know, and those are really
fun, but I think, you
know, they're also very specific
and not everybody needs them.
Yeah. Th that gap though,
to jump from a static
chart or static visualization, something
that I, you know, when
I started, I generated these
things as PNGs or gifts
on the server side, that
jump to interactivity, something as
simple as a filter. And
it still delights the user
though. Like if you have
a dropdown that then changes
something, we don't want to
just generate a new graphic,
we want it to animate
on the way there to
give you a sense of
change. So adding that, that
dimension of time. Yeah, absolutely.
I do think that animation
adds a lot to, to
grab some of the, especially
on the web that equals
folks. When they see charts,
they kind of expect to
be able to at least
hover on them, get a
little bit more information, but
then also interact with them
in more interesting ways. And
that transition definitely brings with
it a lot more complexity.
But I think some of
the libraries that we have
today make it a lot
easier. A lot of both
charting libraries that have prebuilt
components try to expose various
kinds of events. We hope
to be able to wire
in, in, into certain events.
And then at the same
time when you're creating new
visualizations using, you know, standard
on components like SVG, for
example, or even this, I
mean, I've seen lots of
visualizations just done with straight
up HTML and it's, you
know, you can use the
standard browser events system to
really be able to hook
in and change things around.
So, So you are the
director of data visualization at,
at Boku. And I think
that, that that's really significant
because by, by saying that
that is your title by
having the title of director
of data visualization, it's a
declaration on behalf, not just
of your company, but as
an, as an industry, that
this is a, a specific
and valued practice within the
practice of software creation. You
know what I mean? You're
not, you're not just like,
Oh, go ask Irene she's.
She messes with charts over
there. This is a, this
is a very specific skill.
And I remember struggling to
get a QA department. I
think it's so wonderful that
there's a formalized kind of
like department around data visualization.
Is that something that other
companies should be looking at?
Yeah, I mean, I absolutely
think so. It's been a
really exciting year for us.
I, I'm almost humbled at
the amount of interest that
we're seeing from people, but
in a lot of ways,
that makes sense to me
because we've gotten really good
at building software for the
web. And because of that,
we've gotten really good at
collecting data. And the moment
you have data, you want
to make it actionable. There's
no reason not to, you
know, a lot of times
we make decisions based on
our gut feeling. And suddenly
we now have data that
we can make use of.
And as soon as folks
try to do that, they
realize, Oh, this is an
entire discipline data science data
analysis. There are things that
you have to be able
to do and know how
to do. And once you
analyze your data, you want
to communicate that in some
way that will really enable
the conversation and not just
lead folks kind of looking
at a bunch of numbers
and wondering, well, what does
that mean? So I think
that it's just really very
much the next step for
a lot of what we're
doing. And we see a
lot of companies that have
implemented this incredibly well. You
know, I always talk about
Netflix because their entire business
model is data-driven their data.
First company, they have all
your history, all your behavior.
And in a lot of
ways, they know exactly what
it is you're going to
watch and what you're going
to enjoy. And, you know,
when you look for example,
at the programs that they're
starting to offer, people love
the shows that they put
together. And those are very
much a consequence of really
looking at the data that
they have. So I'm really
excited to see more and
more people understand that and
acknowledge that, just looking at
data and using it both
for insight and communication is
going to be a really
powerful tool in nursing. Where
is the intersection of the
practice of, of data visualization
at the company versus user
experience and then design, is
there like a Venn diagram?
See here, I am trying
to design some visualization like
w cause you've got UX
and UI, right? You've got
designers and then you've got
you. How do you all
work? Oh, it's the, it's
the best collaboration ever. I'm
so glad you asked that.
So we follow very much
a user research driven approach
to the way that we
work with projects. And a
lot of the times that
means that during our discovery
phase, we will have both
more traditional designers. So who's
doing the user research and
persona development and really understanding
what the stakeholders have to
say and what they need.
And then we also have
someone who is working on
the data visualization and the
prevailing on the data analysis
and context gathering, and maybe
a little bit of prototyping.
And so that person will
sort of, you know, figure
out what the what's, the
data that folks have, what
questions they need to be
asking. Can we answer it
with the data we're finding,
even making sense to people.
So there's kind of this
back and forth from both
ends and go. These processes
inform each other a lot.
So for example, if we
know that we want to
do a very data driven
interface, you know, we can
go and crunch some numbers
and then go back to
our designer and say, here's
what we're finding you, you
know, go talk to the
folks, students make sense or
not. You know, how about
we think of these wireframes
and this other way. So
it's definitely a process that
is, I think, has been
new to us this year.
Something that as we're just
been building more and more
intricate and complex data driven
tools, but we find that
it ends up filling both
of the gaps in both
of our processes so much
better. So our designer has
a being much more informed
by actual factual data. And
we are so much more
informed because we have a
better understanding of our stakeholders.
So that that process is
something I'm super excited about.
Actually, I'll be, I'll be
speaking about it and the
strata conference in, I think,
March of next year. So
I'm pretty excited to share
more about how we probably
do it. So it really
is quite formal, right? I
mean, it's not just a,
like sometimes I feel in
small companies, design is the
designer is talented and we
trust the designer and the
designer does what the designer
does, but you really are
doing, you know, AB C
through Z testing to make
sure that this really is
scientifically the appropriate visualization. We,
well, I wouldn't, I wouldn't
say that it's as rigorous.
And I think sometimes it
also depends on the complexity
of the data that we're
operating with. Not all the
questions we ask are so
complex that we have to
do that much testing. A
lot of the times, some
of our initial gut feelings
will, will pan out to
be right, if not the
first, the second or third.
And we'll kind of go
from that, but it's definitely
somewhat formalized in that we,
we know when we're missing
something and we'll know that
it's really important for us
to ask a lot of
questions and we'll do a
lot of verification with the
folks we're talking to to
make sure we're on the
right track. Obviously the last
thing anybody wants is first
to go with the wrong
thing. And I think this
year was also exciting for
us because we really got
to see the experience and
see the full potential of
having kind of a full
UX practice versus I think
what maybe more traditionally folks
consider when they think about
web design, which is like
someone making their buttons and
putting them in the right
place. And that's kind of
a misconception that we, we,
you know, are excited to
share with people because our,
this design has been such
a core part of our
practice. And we built just
much, much better products with
people. Hey folks, I wanted
to take a moment to
tell you about Reagan and
their new product called pulse.
Reagan is an error and
crash reporting software provider and
their new product pulse. It's
a realtime user monitoring product.
It gives you performance data
and user insights. Lets you
understand exactly what's happening when
users interact with your software.
So you're never left guessing.
Reagan provides you with the
answers to your performance questions
and they've found over 10 billion
that's billion with a B
bugs and customer apps with
their crash reporting product. And
now Reagan will help you
understand application quality. Like no
one else over 30,000 developers
worldwide, can't be wrong. I
use Reagan and all the
time and I enjoy it
very much. You can try
it out today with a
no risk 30 day free
trial start improving your software
quality immediately try Reagan for
free today@reagan.io. So many eyes
was I believe in 2007.
So I feel like if
we Mark that as the
beginning of the, the, the
uptick of the, you know,
the hockey stick of enthusiasm
around visualization on the net,
what do you think? What
are some examples of where
data visualization really like got
the attention of more than
just, you know, the small
subculture of data visualizers? I
feel like there's the New York
times visualization team and then
Nate silver is five 38
statistics website. What do you
think? Yeah, I mean, I
absolutely agree. Both of those
institutions have had so much
impact on our community and
they continue to, I mean,
everyone looks thinner times and
they always innovate so fast
in terms of just the
types of visualizations they make.
I've definitely seen that become
a more common communication pattern.
You know, I'll have, you
know, friends who just expect
it more. There was recently
kind of a very interesting
actually motion graphic piece that
kind of went and stepped
through of this brilliant ticket
visualization of, I believe it
was world world war II.
And I was really amazed
to just see it show
up in all kinds of
contexts, not just in the
data. This community was very
much talked about in the
story and community and other
places and the film community
kind of jumped on it.
So it was really interesting
and no one talked about
it as, Oh wow. Look
at this data visualization piece.
And I think that's one
of the things that sometimes
maybe surprising, but I hope
for us is that people
stop talking about us as
like a subfield and just
talk about the content that
we produce. And I think
that ends up confirming itself.
When you just look at
some sort of a data
visualization piece and you don't
really think about the color
or the layout, you actually
really dig into the story
and kind of forget that
everything else was there. And
I consider that success for
better or worse, but we've,
we kinda actually, we're really
lucky this year to produce
this project called Stereotropes, which
was looking at TV tropes.
And we're really interested in
when people were describing tropes
that appeared film and other
media. And we built this
project called Stereotropes and we
got a lot of really
interesting conversations from folks completely
of the technical community because
we, we talked about gender
and then the gender is
represented through natural language processing.
And it was really nice
because it was, you know,
fairly unbiased analysis. And then
we just kind of, according
to what we saw and
we got all kinds of
folks chatting with that scrum,
the humidity's from that community
itself, we're really thrilled that
they were excited about our
work. And I really appreciate
being able to share this
discipline with other people. Digital
humanities is one place where
there's a huge increase in,
in that there's good new
events popping up everywhere. Folks
were working in history and
geography and things like that
are starting to really make
use of these tools and
some really creative ways. So
I watched to see what
they're doing For people who
are listening, who might not
be familiar with that word
tropes. It's kind of like
a, you know, a cliche
that you see repeated time
and time and time again.
And there's this really wonderful
cycle TV tropes that you
can go check out, but
the TV tropes the website
as lovely as it is,
is largely kind of a
classic text-based Wiki. And if
you go to stereo tropes,
T R O P E
s.boku.com, you'll get a much,
almost like a visual as
a viewer of TV tropes
content. But what's so surprising
about it is that you
look around and you go,
this is a, a pleasantly
organized site and it has
some nice visualizations, but then
you do a mouseover and
then suddenly the page just
kind of comes to life.
And then data starts getting
connected in a way that
you wouldn't necessarily expect words,
start having lines drawn to
them. And then you start
realizing that this is a
much superior way to explore
a Wiki of, of content.
It's really an exceptional example
that people should check out.
Thank you. That's really, that's
really kind of your thing.
Yeah. It's, it's like you
see something fresh or new
like this and you're like,
Oh, I want to do
that. You know, I want,
I want that on my
website. I did not expect
that. You know, I'm you
look like using stereotypes again,
as an example, you know,
like, Oh, here's a list
of a column of, you
know, four different tropes and
then you hover over one
of them and then the
whole page comes alive and
you're like, Oh, wait a
second. And then the neurons
in your brain start making
connections that are directly associated
with like, you've inspired those
neurons to suddenly start firing.
And then you'll just spend
your whole day on the
website. It's really pretty cool.
That's that's the, the chief
complaint people have had for
us is that we've made
it too easy to spend
a lot of time there.
And we had someone who
was on site for six
hours and we just couldn't
believe it. And we kind
of wondered if they were
just like left it open,
but they were just periodic
activity. And like, that is
my favorite user, whoever you
are out there, like, I
love you. Thank you. There
was a knee. I would
hate to have someone lose
their job because your visualization
was too effective. That's a
great problem. So how do
you build something like that
is this  dot JS.
Yeah. So we're using D
three for, for all the
different visualizations and there's some
other more MVC specific components.
So we're using backbone in
this case, but we've used
various kinds of libraries to,
to fill in those gaps.
And then the entire site
is actually just a static
site. So neat, especially for
apps that don't recall. It's
a static site feels so
dynamic. It is very dynamic
when I say static, I
mean that there isn't a
backend server. That's actually powering
any type of queries. What
we end up doing in
these cases where we know
the data is finite. We
know the queries that we're
going to make. We actually
pre generate all the decent
data, dump it on us
three and the front end
app just makes requests to
that, which is pretty great
because you literally couldn't bring
it down unless Amazon goes
down and then you know,
that the rest of the
internet is out. So That's
so amazing. I love that
we have come full circle
and that a site that
feels dynamic that is dynamic
is at the height of
technology here in 2015, happens
to be statically generated because
the dataset is finite. Of
course, it's the totally appropriate
thing to do for this
technology need. Yeah, absolutely. For
things that are read only
in this way, we would
definitely consider it a lot
of times. And in this
case we sort of, we
have kind of a data
pipeline that actually goes and
gets the data and that's
a whole nother craziness. The,
the data is like many
gigabytes and it's a triple
form. And so there's a
whole analysis pipeline that we
can just rerun and then
it'll regenerate all our files
and update them. So, yeah,
it works really great. Talking
a little bit about D
three JS, was that another
kind of pivot point in
the creation of effective visualizations?
I mean, there were things
beforehand, there was a lot
of Java for a time
only, only Java was the
visualization tool, like in the
early two thousands. If you
wanted to see a visualization,
you'd show up at a
page, the page would pause,
Java would load and there'd
be a little Island of
interactivity, but then it seems
like D three JS changed
all that. Yeah, absolutely. I
would say that  really
ushered a new era for
people making, not just charting
on the web, but really
creative charting on the web.
There were sort of like
predecessors. So DQE came out
of the work of my
cross doc. Obviously everyone should
follow. Cause he just does
amazing things all the time.
And before that there were
some other libraries. One of
is, and actually its predecessor.
It was a library called
flare, which was written, I
believe in a flash or
Java, but they started to
implement this idea of coming
out of what's called a
graphic, the grammar of graphics,
where you sort of really
break down our visualization into
the components that it contains.
So you identify them as
repeatable patterns. So for example,
and a scatterplot circle is
a, is a Mark and
you can have lots of
different types of marks and
you can have different layers
of marks and then you
have axes. And, and so
instead of saying, I want
a bar chart, all those,
all those different libraries work
by saying, well, I need
to have some axes. And
then I also need to
have bars and those bars
are gonna repeat according to
this rule and they're going
to be high up or
other role. And so the
power of D three is
actually in that it is
very flexible. So it does
have some prebuilt and layouts
for, for things like, you
know, area graphs, for example,
where you can pass the
data and it will basically
attach positioning specific properties to
it. But in a lot
of cases, you really can
be very flexible with it.
So if you decided you
wanted to have your visualization
be, you know, stars that
you positioned in space, according
to my multiplying, some data
points and translating them to,
you know, your, your SPG
elements. Sure. You can totally
do that because that, that's
kind of the main part
of decrease that it's data-driven
documents. So you just have
that binding really closely together.
And then as a result,
you can kind of create
new types of visualization. And
I think both decrease existence
and being so flexible combined
with all the amazing work
that the New York times were
doing with it. So Mike
Bostok was working at the
new times for a long
time and producing really incredible,
incredible interactive and releasing just
hundreds, if not thousands of
examples. So a lot of
the DC community is powered
by this website called blocks
and blocks are just really
shareable pieces of D three
code that that rendered is
just, it's just a just
viewer. If you love just
our get hub, a small
get out code snippets. And,
but what made them great
is that lots of people
are producing that basically covering
a ton of different examples
for the kind of visualizations
you'd want. So if you
needed an example of some
crazy diagram, it's pretty likely
that you could find it
and then just modify it
to fit your code. And
Mike bossa created hundreds of
them so that other people
and tools were built are
being built on top of
that to make it even
easier for people to find
the examples that they need.
And so, as a result,
there's just a huge ecosystem
around it. So blocks is
kind of like code pen
or GS for visualizations, and
you can share them and
remix them and there's even
a browser extension. So this
is the place that people
who are listening, like they
should probably start at blocks
and start learning about how
this stuff works. Yeah, absolutely.
I would say you can
go to Mike  page
on the blocks website and
just look through the examples
and be super impressed and
intimidated. And then, and then
just look at the code
and say, Oh, I can
do this and then do
it. It's one of the
things That is most impressive
about D three is the,
the element of time. It's
not just doing data binding
and presenting a visualization, but
the idea that if the
data changes, the visualization changes
dynamically. Yeah, absolutely. So one
of the most exciting, but
also most challenging parts of
decree is understanding this life
cycle set up, basically any
kind of element can be
in three different States. It
could either be entering as
in it wasn't, it didn't
exist before in the dataset
and now it appeared it
could be exiting as in
it is no longer going
to be present and then
updated, which is, you know,
it's been there and it
may have changed our main
thought of, and the way
that you work with day
three is basically you just,
you just specify the instructions
for what should happen to
those elements at those three
different stages. And it's actually
pretty cool because that means
that no matter how many
times we data comes through,
you kind of have the
set of instructions for what
should happen at those points
in time. So it takes
a little while to kind
of wrap your head around
it, especially because one of
the funky things about D
three is that even though
you're working with a collection
of elements like an actual
Ray or something, it doesn't
seem that way because you
just change things, change things
along, and it looks like
you're working on a single
element, but you're not, but
once you sort of wrap
your head around it, it
becomes really easy to be
able to add kind of
that interactivity. And initially that
interactivity, obviously it's just, you
know, you add things, remove
things it's still somewhat static,
but you can very quickly
add transitions to that. And
transitions actually let you animate
from one point to another.
So once you know that
you want to point, for
example, to appear when it's
entering, instead of it just
showing up, you can, let's
say animated capacity. And that
is literally just a couple
more lines of code. So
we started seeing a lot
of really exciting animation being
added because once you kind
of get the basics, you
can just layer them. In
addition to that, you have,
Would it be fair to
compare D three JS with
jQuery in the, in the
sense of it was a,
a quantum leap on top
of JavaScript and also provided
this idea of chained kind
of fluent interfaces? Yeah, I
absolutely think so. And actually
when I teach R D
three class, I actually start
by comparing the two different
libraries because they do actually
share some functionality. So you're
still interfacing with the Dom.
You can still set properties,
you can style elements and
things like that. And then
they kind of divergent their
own directions. And that D
three then adds all this
extra functionality for working with
visualization. And I think in
terms of its significance, it
absolutely had the same type
of effects on our community
where, whereas before it was
something that a select few
folks did and it was
really hard to do. So
you didn't see nearly as
many really exciting, really engaging
visualizations. It just didn't have
as broad a reach. And
now it's kind of the
de facto standard. You sort
of start from there and
then, you know, you might
decide, okay, I need to
work with lip geo or
is that too much data?
Or maybe I want to
work with canvas, but that,
that is just the starting
point for a lot of
people. Now just like Jake
greens. Do you feel that
a good visualization technology is
one that lets you focus
on the visualization and less
on the technology? Or is
that, or are they impossible
to decouple the two? I
think it probably depends on
the use case that folks
are running into. I think
that it is good to
have as close the pairing
between the technology and what
it is you're trying to
do. So I think in
terms of what D three
offers you, once you get
used to it, which mind
you takes a really long
time, I do want to
give folks that warning. It's
just, it's a hard library
to be months. It took
everybody. I know, months don't
give up on it, but
once you kind of wrap
your head around it, there
is very much a one
to one mapping between what
you want to do and
the code that you need
to write to do it.
I would say there isn't
too much obstruction layers there.
Isn't some kind of a
crazy magical structure. There's no
magic can decrease just about.
It's very functional. You pass
data in it. Things happen
to it. You create elements,
we customize them Functional. That's,
that's almost like a bit
of double entendre. There is
a kind of a functional
language of its own. You
are thinking about math and
about chaining functions together. Yeah.
I mean, you're changing functions
together, but one of the
funny things in decree is
that sometimes what you produce
is actually more functions that
you can pass data through.
So an example of that
would be using D three
skills, which are really custom,
really useful utility for translating
data from one space to
another. So the most common
use is actually a translating
your data from your business
domain to actual pixels in
space. And you can customize
these skills. You can say,
okay, this is going to
be a linear scale. And
this is the domain range,
and this is the actual
visual range pixel range. And
I wanted to be done
in these increments, things like
that. And all that gives
you is another function that
you can then actually just
Piper data points through in
a low how to translate
them. And that's another kind
of confusing part about D
three, is that a lot
of the times you're just
customizing these extra functions that
are then going to be
super tailored to what you're
trying to do. So you
are also the chair of
a conference called open visit,
is that correct? Yes, that
is correct. So open vis
a vis@openvisitcovid.com is coming up
in April. So the two
day conference is single track
and it's dedicated to the
practice of visualizing data on
the web. Is this something
you think people who are
listening should come to? Absolutely.
I'm really, really proud of
open this conference going to
be our fourth year and
every year we bring together
folks who are actual practitioners
in this field. And we
say, please, our attendees learn
how to do what you
do. So we're very much
focused on having an educational
spirit. It's not quite tutorials,
but just about some folks
will go out there and
they'll talk about libraries that
they use, or they'll dissect
the project they've built, or
they'll talk about design patterns.
And it's really just an
incredible set of folks. Every
year we run the call
for speakers. We're actually right
in the middle of our
current reviews for next year.
And we're just so impressed
with everything that comes in.
I always want to make
it like a month of
talks because they're all great,
but we do. We generally
cover kind of the full
space from a data analysis
to data visualization, to, you
know, working with the newest
and most exciting technologies in
the web, but also how
to bring in this work
to your practice and into
your life. So it's the
goal is for it to
be very, very accessible. Very
cool. It looks like it's
accessible also from a pricing
perspective, it looks like a
great conference. I think that
anybody who is interested in
the space should definitely check
it out@openvisitcovid.com. Thanks so much
for chatting with me today,
Irene. I really appreciate. Thank
you so much, Scott. It's
been really great. I'm really
honored to be on your
show. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.